This was my dissertation for my master's degree in Data Science and Analytics at the University of Leeds.

This dissertation explores the application of Gaussian processes to analyse noisy time-series data, particularly focusing on the stock market data using the Alphabet Inc. (GOOG) stock data collected from Yahoo Finance website. With the ubiquitous presence of noisy time-series data in modern applications, the need to capture underlying trends and predict future trajectories as well as complete missing data is crucial. Gaussian processes, as a probabilistic and principled framework, offer an approach to achieve these goals, providing both interpolation and extrap- olation capabilities along with associated uncertainties. It can also perform the task of filling in missing data. We explore various kernel functions in the Gaussian process framework to investigate their impacts on data analysis and prediction. By utilising different time windows, the study presents the detailed analysis of the behaviour of Gaussian processes and their ability to model stock market data. Key findings highlight the suitability of specific kernel choices for different tasks, such as completing missing data and predicting trends, while emphasising the importance of including linear kernel and accounting for noise. Through comprehensive analysis and experimentation, our dissertation contributes to a deeper understanding of Gaus- sian process applications in time-series analysis and prediction. We also provides insights into model behavior, paves the way for more robust and accurate predictive modeling, and facilitates decision-making in financial domains and beyond.
